# How to Contribute

Thank you for contributing to Eurecat. Your patches and contributions to this project are really welcomed. Just be sure
to fulfill the following guidelines. There are some official procedures to know about. This documentation is meant to be
a quick guide for the most useful things.

## Communication

The best way to ask general questions regarding the project is to contact directly to the current mantainers, which are
listed in the [README](README.md) file.

## Getting started

If you are new to the repo, the best way to start is looking at issues with `good first issue` label. Issues
with `documentation` label are also a great start. Nonetheless, you can head to other issues if you are confident
enough.

## Style guidelines

The current project is linted by the [black](https://pypi.org/project/black/) code formatter. There is a Github Action
that takes care that the code that is merged in the master branch is well formatted.

## Code reviews

When you open a PR on the repo, a reviewer will be assigned as soon as possible. The reviewer is the person that will
approve the PR to be tested and merged. If you want a specific reviewer, you can request them by writing @user in the
post or in a followup comment.

Please note that the reviewers are humans too, which means that they can take some time to respond and review your PR.
It also means that reviewers can miss some PRs that are assigned to them.

The reviewer may request some changes using the GitHub code review interface. They may also request special procedures
for some PRs.

For most PRs, no special procedures are needed. You can just open a PR, and it will be reviewed, approved, and merged.
This includes most bug fixes, refactorings, and other user-invisible changes.

Also, note that it is perfectly acceptable to open GitHub Draft PRs. Some people prefer to do this so they can get
feedback along the way or share their code with a collaborator. Others do this so they can utilize the CI to build and
test their PR.

### Reporting bugs

Bugs should be reported to the Github Issues with the `bug` label. Use the bug template to help the other contributors
to reproduce the error and be a helpful hand to the issue. Please ensure your description is clear and has sufficient
instructions to be able to reproduce the issue. Please first check existing issues as well as the README for existing
solutions.

## Contributor License Agreement

By contributing to this repository, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the LICENSE file in the
root directory of this source tree.

## Code of Conduct

In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as contributors and maintainers pledge to make
participation in our project and our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body size,
disability, ethnicity, sex characteristics, gender identity and expression, level of experience, education,
socio-economic status, nationality, personal appearance, race, religion, or sexual identity and orientation.

Project maintainers are responsible for clarifying the standards of acceptable behavior and are expected to take
appropriate and fair corrective action in response to any instances of unacceptable behavior.

Project maintainers have the right and responsibility to remove, edit, or reject comments, commits, code, wiki edits,
issues, and other contributions that are not aligned to this [Code of Conduct](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/), or to ban temporarily or permanently any
contributor for other behaviors that they deem inappropriate, threatening, offensive, or harmful. This Code of Conduct
is adapted from the Contributor Covenant, version 1.4, available
at https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/code-of-conduct.html